---
id: "1003"
title: "Ministering Spirits"
month: 10
day: 3
scriptureVerse: "Hebrews 1:14"
scriptureText: "Are not all angels ministering spirits sent to serve those who will inherit salvation?"
---

Angels are the unseen attendants of the saints of God; they bear us up in their hands, lest we dash our foot against a stone. Loyalty to their Lord leads them to take a deep interest in the children of His love; they rejoice over the return of the prodigal to his father's house below, and they welcome the advent of the believer to the King's palace above. In olden times the sons of God were favoured with their visible appearance, and at this day, although unseen by us, heaven is still opened, and the angels of God ascend and descend upon the Son of man, that they may visit the heirs of salvation. Seraphim still fly with live coals from off the altar to touch the lips of men greatly beloved. If our eyes could be opened, we should see horses of fire and chariots of fire about the servants of the Lord; for we have come to an innumerable company of angels, who are all watchers and protectors of the seed-royal. Spenser's line is no poetic fiction, where he sings---

"How oft do they with golden pinions cleave

The flitting skies, like flying pursuivant

Against foul fiends to aid us militant!"

To what dignity are the chosen elevated when the brilliant courtiers of heaven become their willing servitors! Into what communion are we raised since we have intercourse with spotless celestials! How well are we defended since all the twenty- thousand chariots of God are armed for our deliverance! To whom do we owe all this? Let the Lord Jesus Christ be for ever endeared to us, for through Him we are made to sit in heavenly places far above principalities and powers. He it is whose camp is round about them that fear Him; He is the true Michael whose foot is upon the dragon. All hail, Jesus! thou Angel of Jehovah's presence, to Thee this family offers its morning vows.


<br />

## Prayer

For he will command his angels concerning you  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;to guard you in all your ways;  
they will lift you up in their hands,  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;so that you will not strike your foot against a stone.  
Praise the Lord, you his angels,  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;you mighty ones who do his bidding.
