---
id: "0106"
title: "He Cares for You"
month: 1
day: 6
scriptureVerse: "1 Peter 5:7"
scriptureText: "Cast all your anxiety on him because he cares for you."
---

It is a happy way of soothing sorrow when we can feel---"HE careth for me." Christian! do not dishonour religion by always wearing a brow of care; come, cast your burden upon your Lord. You are staggering beneath a weight which your Father would not feel. What seems to you a crushing burden, would be to Him but as the small dust of the balance. Nothing is so sweet as to

"Lie passive in God's hands,

And know no will but His."

O child of suffering, be thou patient; God has not passed thee over in His providence. He who is the feeder of sparrows, will also furnish you with what you need. Sit not down in despair; hope on, hope ever. Take up the arms of faith against a sea of trouble, and your opposition shall yet end your distresses. There is One who careth for you. His eye is fixed on you, His heart beats with pity for your woe, and his hand omnipotent shall yet bring you the needed help. The darkest cloud shall scatter itself in showers of mercy. The blackest gloom shall give place to the morning. He, if thou art one of His family, will bind up thy wounds, and heal thy broken heart. Doubt not His grace because of thy tribulation, but believe that He loveth thee as much in seasons of trouble as in times of happiness. What a serene and quiet life might you lead if you would leave providing to the God of providence! With a little oil in the cruse, and a handful of meal in the barrel, Elijah outlived the famine, and you will do the same. If God cares for you, why need you care too? Can you trust Him for your soul, and not for your body? He has never refused to bear your burdens, He has never fainted under their weight. Come, then, soul! have done with fretful care, and leave all thy concerns in the hand of a gracious God.


<br />

## Prayer

Cast your cares on the Lord  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and he will sustain you;  
he will never let  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;the righteous be shaken.  
When I am afraid,  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I put my trust in you.