---
id: "0511"
title: "I Am With You Always"
month: 5
day: 11
scriptureVerse: "Matthew 28:20"
scriptureText: "and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I am with you always, to the very end of the age."
---

It is well there is One who is ever the same, and who is ever with us. It is well there is one stable rock amidst the billows of the sea of life. O my soul, set not thine affections upon rusting, moth-eaten, decaying treasures, but set thine heart upon Him who abides for ever faithful to thee. Build not thine house upon the moving quicksands of a deceitful world, but found thy hopes upon this rock, which, amid descending rain and roaring floods, shall stand immovably secure. My soul, I charge thee, lay up thy treasure in the only secure cabinet; store thy jewels where thou canst never lose them. Put thine all in Christ; set all thine affections on His person, all thy hope in His merit, all thy trust in His efficacious blood, all thy joy in His presence, and so thou mayest laugh at loss, and defy destruction. Remember that all the flowers in the world's garden fade by turns, and the day cometh when nothing will be left but the black, cold earth. Death's black extinguisher must soon put out thy candle. Oh! how sweet to have sunlight when the candle is gone! The dark flood must soon roll between thee and all thou hast; then wed thine heart to Him who will never leave thee; trust thyself with Him who will go with thee through the black and surging current of death's stream, and who will land thee safely on the celestial shore, and make thee sit with Him in heavenly places for ever. Go, sorrowing son of affliction, tell thy secrets to the Friend who sticketh closer than a brother. Trust all thy concerns with Him who never can be taken from thee, who will never leave thee, and who will never let thee leave Him, even "Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, and to-day, and for ever." "Lo, I am with you alway," is enough for my soul to live upon, let who will forsake me.


<br />

## Prayer

God is our refuge and strength,  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;an ever-present help in trouble.  
Therefore we will not fear, though the earth give way  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and the mountains fall into the heart of the sea.  
The Lord Almighty is with us;  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;the God of Jacob is our fortress.
