---
id: "0404"
title: "Made Sin for Us"
month: 4
day: 4
scriptureVerse: "2 Corinthians 5:21"
scriptureText: "God made him who had no sin to be sin for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God."
---

Mourning Christian! why weepest thou? Art thou mourning over thine own corruptions? Look to thy perfect Lord, and remember, thou art complete in Him; thou art in God's sight as perfect as if thou hadst never sinned; nay, more than that, the Lord our Righteousness hath put a divine garment upon thee, so that thou hast more than the righteousness of man---thou hast the righteousness of God. O Thou who art mourning by reason of inbred sin and depravity, remember, none of thy sins can condemn thee. Thou hast learned to hate sin; but thou hast learned also to know that sin is not thine---it was laid upon Christ's head. Thy standing is not in thyself---it is in Christ; thine acceptance is not in thyself, but in thy Lord; thou art as much accepted of God to-day, with all thy sinfulness, as thou wilt be when thou standest before His throne, free from all corruption. O, I beseech thee, lay hold on this precious thought, perfection in Christ! For thou art "complete in Him." With thy Saviour's garment on, thou art holy as the Holy one. "Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea rather, that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us." Christian, let thy heart rejoice, for thou art "accepted in the beloved"---what hast thou to fear? Let thy face ever wear a smile; live near thy Master; live in the suburbs of the Celestial City; for soon, when thy time has come, thou shalt rise up where thy Jesus sits, and reign at His right hand; and all this because the divine Lord "was made to be sin for us, who knew no sin; that we might be made the righteousness of God in Him."

---
**Prayer**

My mouth will tell of your righteous deeds,  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;of your saving acts all day long.  
I will come and proclaim your mighty acts, Sovereign Lord;  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I will proclaim your righteous deeds, yours alone.
