---
id: "0419"
title: "The Rent Veil"
month: 4
day: 19
scriptureVerse: "Matthew 27:51"
scriptureText: "At that moment the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. The earth shook, the rocks split"
---

No mean miracle was wrought in the rending of so strong and thick a veil; but it was not intended merely as a display of power---many lessons were herein taught us. The old law of ordinances was put away, and like a worn-out vesture, rent and laid aside. When Jesus died, the sacrifices were all finished, because all fulfilled in Him, and therefore the place of their presentation was marked with an evident token of decay. That rent also revealed all the hidden things of the old dispensation: the mercy-seat could now be seen, and the glory of God gleamed forth above it. By the death of our Lord Jesus we have a clear revelation of God, for He was "not as Moses, who put a veil over his face." Life and immortality are now brought to light, and things which have been hidden since the foundation of the world are manifest in Him. The annual ceremony of atonement was thus abolished. The atoning blood which was once every year sprinkled within the veil, was now offered once for all by the great High Priest, and therefore the place of the symbolical rite was broken up. No blood of bullocks or of lambs is needed now, for Jesus has entered within the veil with his own blood. Hence access to God is now permitted, and is the privilege of every believer in Christ Jesus. There is no small space laid open through which we may peer at the mercy-seat, but the rent reaches from the top to the bottom. We may come with boldness to the throne of the heavenly grace. Shall we err if we say that the opening of the Holy of Holies in this marvellous manner by our Lord's expiring cry was the type of the opening of the gates of paradise to all the saints by virtue of the Passion? Our bleeding Lord hath the key of heaven; He openeth and no man shutteth; let us enter in with Him into the heavenly places, and sit with Him there till our common enemies shall be made His footstool.


<br />

## Prayer

Open to me the gates of righteousness;  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I will enter and give thanks to the Lord.  
This is the gate of the Lord  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;through which the righteous may enter.  
I will give you thanks, for you answered me;  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;you have become my salvation.
