---
id: "0710"
title: "Fellow Citizens with Saints"
month: 7
day: 10
scriptureVerse: "Ephesians 2:19"
scriptureText: "Consequently, you are no longer foreigners and strangers, but fellow citizens with God's people and also members of his household,"
---

What is meant by our being citizens in heaven? It means that we are under heaven's government. Christ the king of heaven reigns in our hearts; our daily prayer is, "Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven." The proclamations issued from the throne of glory are freely received by us: the decrees of the Great King we cheerfully obey. Then as citizens of the New Jerusalem, we share heaven's honours. The glory which belongs to beatified saints belongs to us, for we are already sons of God, already princes of the blood imperial; already we wear the spotless robe of Jesu's righteousness; already we have angels for our servitors, saints for our companions, Christ for our Brother, God for our Father, and a crown of immortality for our reward. We share the honours of citizenship, for we have come to the general assembly and Church of the first-born whose names are written in heaven. As citizens, we have common rights to all the property of heaven. Ours are its gates of pearl and walls of chrysolite; ours the azure light of the city that needs no candle nor light of the sun; ours the river of the water of life, and the twelve manner of fruits which grow on the trees planted on the banks thereof; there is nought in heaven that belongeth not to us. "Things present, or things to come," all are ours. Also as citizens of heaven we enjoy its delights. Do they there rejoice over sinners that repent---prodigals that have returned? So do we. Do they chant the glories of triumphant grace? We do the same. Do they cast their crowns at Jesu's feet? Such honours as we have we cast there too. Are they charmed with His smile? It is not less sweet to us who dwell below. Do they look forward, waiting for His second advent? We also look and long for His appearing. If, then, we are thus citizens of heaven, let our walk and actions be consistent with our high dignity.


<br />

## Prayer

The Lord loves the gates of Zion  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;more than all the other dwellings of Jacob.  
Glorious things are said of you,  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;city of God.  
As we have heard, so we have seen  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;in the city of the Lord Almighty.
