---
id: "0610"
title: "Live unto the Lord"
month: 6
day: 10
scriptureVerse: "Romans 14:8"
scriptureText: "If we live, we live for the Lord; and if we die, we die for the Lord. So, whether we live or die, we belong to the Lord."
---

If God had willed it, each of us might have entered heaven at the moment of conversion. It was not absolutely necessary for our preparation for immortality that we should tarry here. It is possible for a man to be taken to heaven, and to be found meet to be a partaker of the inheritance of the saints in light, though he has but just believed in Jesus. It is true that our sanctification is a long and continued process, and we shall not be perfected till we lay aside our bodies and enter within the veil; but nevertheless, had the Lord so willed it, He might have changed us from imperfection to perfection, and have taken us to heaven at once. Why then are we here? Would God keep His children out of paradise a single moment longer than was necessary? Why is the army of the living God still on the battle-field when one charge might give them the victory? Why are His children still wandering hither and thither through a maze, when a solitary word from His lips would bring them into the centre of their hopes in heaven? The answer is---they are here that they may "live unto the Lord," and may bring others to know His love. We remain on earth as sowers to scatter good seed; as ploughmen to break up the fallow ground; as heralds publishing salvation. We are here as the "salt of the earth," to be a blessing to the world. We are here to glorify Christ in our daily life. We are here as workers for Him, and as "workers together with Him." Let us see that our life answereth its end. Let us live earnest, useful, holy lives, to "the praise of the glory of His grace." Meanwhile we long to be with Him, and daily sing---

"My heart is with Him on His throne,

And ill can brook delay;

Each moment listening for the voice,

'Rise up, and come away.'"


<br />

## Prayer

Truly I am your servant, Lord;  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I serve you just as my mother did;  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;you have freed me from my chains.  
I will sacrifice a thank offering to you  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and call on the name of the Lord.
