---
id: "0823"
title: "Weep No More"
month: 8
day: 23
scriptureVerse: "Isaiah 65:19"
scriptureText: "I will rejoice over Jerusalem and take delight in my people; the sound of weeping and of crying will be heard in it no more."
---

The glorified weep no more, for all outward a causes of grief are gone. There are no broken friendships, nor blighted prospects in heaven. Poverty, famine, peril, persecution, and slander, are unknown there. No pain distresses, no thought of death or bereavement saddens. They weep no more, for they are perfectly sanctified. No "evil heart of unbelief" prompts them to depart from the living God; they are without fault before His thrown, and are fully conformed to His image. Well may they cease to mourn who have ceased to sin. They weep no more, because all fear of change is past. They know that they are eternally secure. Sin is shut out, and they are shut in. They dwell within a city which shall never be stormed; they bask in a sun which shall never set; they drink of a river which shall never dry; they pluck fruit from a tree which shall never wither. Countless cycles may revolve, but eternity shall not be exhausted, and while eternity endures, their immortality and blessedness shall co-exist with it. They are for ever with the Lord. They weep no more, because every desire is fulfilled. They cannot wish for anything which they have not in possession. Eye and ear, heart and hand, judgment, imagination, hope, desire, will, all the faculties, are completely satisfied; and imperfect as our present ideas are of the things which God hath prepared for them that love him, yet we know enough, by the revelation of the Spirit, that the saints above are supremely blessed. The joy of Christ, which is an infinite fulness of delight, is in them. They bathe themselves in the bottomless, shoreless sea of infinite beatitude. That same joyful rest remains for us. It may not be far distant. Ere long the weeping willow shall be exchanged for the palm-branch of victory, and sorrow's dewdrops will be transformed into the pearls of everlasting bliss. "Wherefore comfort one another with these words."


<br />

## Prayer

You have made known to me the path of life;  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;you will fill me with joy in your presence,  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;with eternal pleasures at your right hand.  
As for me, I will be vindicated and will see your face;  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;when I awake, I will be satisfied with seeing your likeness.
