---
id: "0318"
title: "Children of God"
month: 3
day: 18
scriptureVerse: "Galatians 3:26"
scriptureText: "So in Christ Jesus you are all children of God through faith,"
---

The fatherhood of God is common to all his children. Ah! Little-faith, you have often said, "Oh that I had the courage of Great-heart, that I could wield his sword and be as valiant as he! But, alas, I stumble at every straw, and a shadow makes me afraid." List thee, Little-faith. Great-heart is God's child, and you are God's child too; and Great-heart is not one whit more God's child than you are. Peter and Paul, the highly- favoured apostles, were of the family of the Most High; and so are you also; the weak Christian is as much a child of God as the strong one.

"This cov'nant stands secure,

Though earth's old pillars bow;

The strong, the feeble, and the weak,

Are one in Jesus now."

All the names are in the same family register. One may have more grace than another, but God our heavenly Father has the same tender heart towards all. One may do more mighty works, and may bring more glory to his Father, but he whose name is the least in the kingdom of heaven is as much the child of God as he who stands among the King's mighty men. Let this cheer and comfort us, when we draw near to God and say, "Our Father."

Yet, while we are comforted by knowing this, let us not rest contented with weak faith, but ask, like the Apostles, to have it increased. However feeble our faith may be, if it be real faith in Christ, we shall reach heaven at last, but we shall not honour our Master much on our pilgrimage, neither shall we abound in joy and peace. If then you would live to Christ's glory, and be happy in His service, seek to be filled with the spirit of adoption more and more completely, till perfect love shall cast out fear.


<br />

## Prayer

As a father has compassion on his children,  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;so the Lord has compassion on those who fear him;  
for he knows how we are formed,  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;he remembers that we are dust.  
But from everlasting to everlasting  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;the Lord's love is with those who fear him.
