---
id: "0328"
title: "Love Past Knowledge"
month: 3
day: 28
scriptureVerse: "Ephesians 3:19"
scriptureText: "and to know this love that surpasses knowledge—that you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God."
---

The love of Christ in its sweetness, its fulness, its greatness, its faithfulness, passeth all human comprehension. Where shall language be found which shall describe His matchless, His unparalleled love towards the children of men? It is so vast and boundless that, as the swallow but skimmeth the water, and diveth not into its depths, so all descriptive words but touch the surface, while depths immeasurable lie beneath. Well might the poet say,

"O love, thou fathomless abyss!"

for this love of Christ is indeed measureless and fathomless; none can attain unto it. Before we can have any right idea of the love of Jesus, we must understand His previous glory in its height of majesty, and His incarnation upon the earth in all its depths of shame. But who can tell us the majesty of Christ? When He was enthroned in the highest heavens He was very God of very God; by Him were the heavens made, and all the hosts thereof. His own almighty arm upheld the spheres; the praises of cherubim and seraphim perpetually surrounded Him; the full chorus of the hallelujahs of the universe unceasingly flowed to the foot of his throne: He reigned supreme above all His creatures, God over all, blessed for ever. Who can tell His height of glory then? And who, on the other hand, can tell how low He descended? To be a man was something, to be a man of sorrows was far more; to bleed, and die, and suffer, these were much for Him who was the Son of God; but to suffer such unparalleled agony---to endure a death of shame and desertion by His Father, this is a depth of condescending love which the most inspired mind must utterly fail to fathom. Herein is love! and truly it is love that "passeth knowledge." O let this love fill our hearts with adoring gratitude, and lead us to practical manifestations of its power.

---
**Prayer**

Your love, Lord, reaches to the heavens,  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;your faithfulness to the skies.  
How priceless is your unfailing love, O God!  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;People take refuge in the shadow of your wings.  
They feast on the abundance of your house;  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;you give them drink from your river of delights.
